Okay,
we are live.
Hello.
Today's going to be a little bit more
chill. I ended up working until 11 last
night. So, um, hey, Pepe. Yeah, stuff's
been busy.
I did manage to get one cool thing. So,
Let me show this
two cool things really. So, first of
all, I managed to get with the same
hyperparameters as the original, I
managed to get a minrunet that's pretty
darn close
uh pretty pretty darn close to the
original LSTM baseline without retuning.
So, that's nice.
And then the second thing I managed to
do, well, not really managed, this is
just from the sweep, right? But we have
this sweep and we see that we got this
one point out at 0.91
now. It's a little bit concerning
because we've got all these like 085
point yada yada and then we have this
one point that's out here. I do remember
the original sweeps being pretty tough
to find though for maze. So this might
not be the worst thing in the world. Um,
it's also kind of weird how if we get 08
in literally a minute and a half and
then this one here, it's like 15
minutes.
So, the problem is these experiments are
getting pretty long. Um, I don't want to
disrupt
what I have going on here, but I also
kind of don't want to just be like
sitting here waiting 15 minutes at a
time per experiment. So I think what I'm
going to do is I'm just going to make
the call that I think that this
architecture should be good enough. Um
at least when we're considering the
space of hyperparams and the space of
different gate functions and a couple
other tidbits. I think this should be
good enough. Uh I'm going to try to
replicate this run locally. I'm going to
make some modifications to it. I'm going
to see if I can get Puffer 4 nice and
stable and get this number up to
something pretty reasonable for
uh for this specific environment suite.
That's going to be the plan at the
moment.
So, we shall start there and then other
things today. I think it's mostly just
cleanup honestly.
There is also the neural MMO network. We
would like to have that integrated as a
benchmark too. That would be very nice
to have.
That one's a bit more complicated
though, so I'm kind of fine having just
grid be the test end for a little bit
and um cleaning some stuff up from here.
We got constellation in a much better
spot as well. Probably do some small
changes to that today.
Uh we shall see. And like really it's
we're getting pretty pretty close to the
release. It's just we need these things
to actually work and be nice and stable
and then we'll be in a better spot. Hey
Lance,
we got some good tests going here. We're
doing uh some ablations on Mingru with a
couple different environments
for the port.
All right, I'm going to chuck these on.
Still going to talk through what I'm
doing, but like some background.
Jesus, it's loud.
All right. Hey, Liberty.
Okay. So, first things first.
If I try to replicate this in torch,
it's going to be like,
would this be a 15-minute run or is this
going to be like a forever run?
I should try that, right?
Do I do it with this version?
I should do it with the mole gate first.
Yeah, we should do it with the mold
gate.
So like this.
leftovers RMS norm.
It wouldn't pass the fuse scan. What do
you mean it wouldn't pass the fuse scan?
It's an output, dude. The RMS norm
wouldn't be between layers anyways.
It's vertical and the that thing is slow
as hell. So we're basically that was one
of the ablations was trying to replace
the need for a norm layer with just a
different gate that doesn't require um
an aggregation off and it seems like it
works either a mole gate or an AD or a
highway net type gate.
What's the plan?
Total agents is 512.
That is wonky.
And then what is it? Hidden layer. It's
three layers
with 1024. That's going to be big.
I need RMS form or something work
similarly
doesn't work with long horizons but the
RMS form is vertical it's not it's not
over time
use a terminal UI
everything pack 2 tab. Yeah, WB has one
of those.
It's just um it's not great for
aggregate monitoring. I'll show you the
thing that I would prefer to use because
I built one. We just don't have
everything migrated over and it's also
not for live monitoring. It's for
aggregate monitoring. So,
all right. This is Puffer Constellation.
This is our pure C back end. Uh it's
super fast. It'll work for like any
number of points pretty much that you
could reasonably have. No lag. It embeds
in web as well if you want. And uh if
you click stuff, it copies all the
hypers to clipboard. Super super
convenient. And a few different things
in here. Not fully fully finished yet,
but it looks pretty cool when you load a
bunch of data into it.
Thank you.
Yeah, that's what I built. It's good.
Not done yet. It's almost done, though.
It's like pretty much already usable.
Just some like visual stuff to clean up.
The wannabe thing is kind of unfortunate
because we were on Neptune before and
then Open AI bought and killed it. Real
open AI. Nice job.
Um,
so yeah.
hidden dimension out over time. That's
why it breaks the scan.
It doesn't break this scan. I have it
training and it works here.
Let me show you.
Okay. So
if seek length is one,
you're just doing uh this one at a time.
So this is your output
and then the hidden gets passed
separately. So your output is here and
the hidden is here. So the hidden never
gets normed or gated or whatever right
and then if you have a uh if you have a
full sequence then this is doing the mat
batched over time. Okay so this is a
whole sequence output and again well you
don't even need this next prep hidden
now because that's gone all the way to
the end of the sequence and then this
output gets passed up.
So it doesn't break the recurrence.
Oh jeez. What do we say, boys? Do we
like uh do we like rust around here?
How do we feel about rust around here?
I do not like rust. It does not bring
joy.
I like my sea.
Switching to X latency is unbearable.
Latency on YouTube is unbearable.
Blame my YouTube for that then. I don't
know.
Could be reream, I guess.
Sometimes people are like scrolled back
five minutes without realizing because
you can do that in YouTube. You can be
scrolled five minutes back in a live
stream. Pretty funny
for TUI Ratatouille.
Yeah, it does piss me off that we don't
have like a nice t and c as far as I'm
aware.
God damn, that language is a mess.
Like honestly, Rust is Rust is to
programming languages what Arch is to
operating systems. It's just like a
bunch of smart nerds that are getting
really really obsessed over completely
the wrong thing.
Oh yeah, let's make the Y rolling
release DRO. It's like, oh, let's like
focus in on memory safety bugs of all
things.
Next time
depends on h
depends on ht.
You can no longer scan.
You can scan each dimension
independently. Dude,
look.
This is just not clicking, I think.
Look.
All right. So, you get your H
h.
All right. then you get X
X.
It's really easy to see this with one
layer. Okay, so this is the output of
the network, right?
I can do whatever I want here, right? I
can put COV, I can put a transformer, I
can do whatever I want here. So all I do
is I put a gate.
So anything I do here doesn't break the
recurrence. So that's what this is. This
out, it's on out. It's not on the
hidden. So the hidden that gets passed
is still unaffected by this.
So all that this norm or whatever is
meant because you have to stack this
pretty deep, right? You need to stack
like three, four, five layers of this.
Norm is just prevent it's just like
there to uh add like a residual type
thing or some numerical stability
between layers. That's it. Yeah. You
don't pass it over the hidden dim.
Exactly. You can't.
You see what I mean?
It's for the stack.
Like obviously my stuff just wouldn't
work at all if I did it that way, right?
And like everything would just be
broken.
Like that's bad enough. You shouldn't
even be able to train anything if you do
that, right?
Your forward pass is different from your
backwards
or your forward train different from
your EV belt, whatever.
I think I got the hypers right.
Let's get this running.
Let's see if this is super slow or not.
Oh, chunky network.
an hour.
Yeah. Anybody who's telling me that like
Oh, yeah. torch is actually not This is
an hour.
All right. Well, that's going in the
background while we do other stuff.
Just going to lag my UI.
Not really.
Let me close some stuff.
If I just turn the preview off. Can I
turn the preview off on my stream?
Think I can just like make it smaller
now.
Oh, but I need that for the chat.
No, I have my chat here.
All right, I got the chat there.
We'll see if this is good.
So the next thing
trying to think how I want to approach
this.
There are a few small concrete things to
fix.
Jeez. All right.
So, it's going to be a pretty easy thing
to update the gates on this
Wait, why don't I see do I not see all
of your comments on this?
Wait, breaking fuse scan
break. It doesn't Wait, this doesn't
break fuse scan.
I'm telling you this doesn't break fuse
scan. What do you want about
It's actually really nice cuz if you
don't need the expansion thing from
mining group, if you don't do the
expansion, you can literally even just
fuse the output gate.
It's super nice. Ends up being one
kernel.
Okay, I actually just can't work like
this. This is like way way too lagging.
This like lags everything. Um,
I think what we're going to do then is
let's do a bunch of these edits locally.
Let's not mess with the net architecture
yet.
And then
but the thing is I don't know how long I
want to let this sweep run. I think
that's the thing I have to decide.
The state grows
unbounded.
but why it shouldn't keep increasing.
Yeah, X does not like you sending
messages.
I guess
I'm not deleting your messages.
You can thank X.
Okay.
with 295 experiments. When did we
discover this one?
7581.
Quite recently, right?
We kind of want to capitalize on this
while we can.
If I say I'm not going to run any heavy
experiments today, what can I do with
that?
I mean, I could also just go confiscate
some other machines
and set it up.
Trying to think if it's time for that.
Would
that help?
Probably
I have the formulas here.
H
well I mean the messages do have to go
through an aggregator.
Let's see. Is it on X?
Nope. It's not on X either, man.
It's just not going
Let me tell Jess Spencer.
do that.
Okay, we'll wait for them to reply on
that one.
Uh, and then we will have
we'll do some dev in the mean bit. Like
the meantime, we have stuff we can do.
We have stuff we can do.
I think this messed up my binding as
well. It did.
Yes, it totally messed this up.
Does this have a close? It does have a
close now, right?
Let's go grab this off the other box.
That's everything here, right? Yep.
What are Puffer's competitors?
Oh, that is my favorite question.
Uh, death, ignorance, and the madness of
men.
Competition is like in my mind is a
stupid concept.
And uh the big labs aren't doing this.
They're not doing this type of RL. This
is like completely unique.
Couple big companies are starting to use
puffer though for the things they are
doing which is fun.
Is it better like this? Yeah. Uh, I've
fixed like several massive bugs in the
40 trainer in the last few days. You
can't just uncomment that though. Um,
there was so basically you needed to
have it uncommented, but there was a
memory corruption. So, it was actually
it was essentially doing something way
closer to vanilla PO with that thing
commented. With it uncommented, it was
broken because of a different bug. So, I
fixed that. There's also another bug
related to LSTM state initialization.
Whole bunch of bugs. I mean, this is
what happens when you have to like throw
out the biggest deep learning library
out there, you know, and do it in a
week. They're going to be bugs. I'm
fixing them now, though, and we're
starting to get like close to par uh
with the original benchmarks. So,
is it not Wait, is it smart to not zero
out the hidden state after the roll out?
That's what I see.
long horizon because yeah, so debris, it
depends on your problem. Uh I think
we're probably going to end up doing
both. We've had we've gone back and
forth both ways in puffer. It actually
turns out that for some problems you
don't want continual learning. Uh and
continual learning lets you cheat. Also,
sometimes having it set like that needs
you you need to zero hypers or stuff or
you need to reach to pipers. I mean, I
think that yes, longer term it is going
to be kept, but then there's some other
stuff we have to think about as well.
Yeah, big gotcha.
Yeah, actually it turned out that for
like the driving end, which is our
biggest collaboration with another lab,
um if you kept the state, it would do
continual learning in this like the LSTM
state and it would have basically
perfect recollection of the target goal.
So you created this huge train test gap
by keeping the state around. So it
really just depends on your problem.
tips to get into MIT, work your [__]
Unfortunately, in the US, um, like
ensuring that you get into a good
undergrad is the or the undergrad of
your choice in particular is the hardest
you will ever work.
like if you're not an actual bonafide
genius is the hardest you ever work.
I went from working um you know studying
and working over 100 hours a week like
110 hours a week uh before undergrad
down to like 90 hours a week in the
first chunk of undergrad down to like I
don't know 70ish in uh PhD and now it's
like a pretty comfortable depends on the
week anywhere from 50 to 80 depends on
what I'm working so it's like it
actually just gets easier but
unfortunately you're at the hard part of
Yeah.
Thanks, mate. Wish I had better end news
for you other than um if you work hard
it gets easier. If you don't work hard,
it gets harder.
That's kind of the best I got for you.
Wait for this. Not really.
you zero all buffer states every call
every horizon steps not just episode end
was that the init bug no actually not
zeroing it was the bug you want to zero
in every call there are two ways to do
it right you either don't zero it ever.
Um, well, actually, I guess there's
several ways to do it. You could also
zero per episode. That would probably be
better. I think that will be more
efficient as well in um in Puffer 4 to
do it that way. It's really crappy to
have to do it that way though in uh in
Torch. It's like a scattered index op
every freaking uh roll out.
I think with a custom kernel, it's way
better.
So, we'll probably do that in puffer 4.
That will actually help.
That wasn't the bug though. Um, so like
that's kind of debatable what you should
do there because the thing is you also
have stale state if you're doing that,
right? Like the state is going to be
stale either way even if you keep it
around. The thing that we were doing is
we were zeroing it in training but we
weren't zeroing it in eval. So that you
whatever you're doing, you definitely
want to match between train and eval.
There's a little bit of subtlety to
this. It's not just like, oh, clearly
you shouldn't zero it. It's like u it's
not super clear. Believe me, I've gone
through this with like several different
problems.
Okay. So,
are we just going to like spend time
cleaning stuff up? Is that what we're
going to do?
I mean, we have several things we could
mess with.
My eval wasn't zeroing at every roll out
length.
Uh, it really depends on your end
whether that matters.
Yeah.
has been very Oh, that's what you got?
I didn't know these guys were still
around. Cool.
They do LM stuff now, right? Oh, yeah.
I'd actually be interested to see if
their um their hyper stuff works.
Have you tried their hypers versus um
Oh, is this proprietary?
Is this al actually um debris is this
algorithm uh proprietary?
Cuz like can we benchmark this against
protein?
Cool.
It would be awesome if evolutionary
works. I'm just pretty doubtful of it.
Like I played around a bunch and it
really seems like you need Gaussian
processes
for what we're doing specifically.
a lot of in RL
we build back we build down back
propagation through time the open source
what do you mean we build down back
propagation through time
we have like it is BPTT right
what do you mean like we have LSTM M
default or min default in the new
version
dictating.
All right, I'll just wait for you to fix
it.
Agile is built by Warberg AI and
contributed.
Oh, cool.
But when you say like their BBT is built
by warp work like what do you mean their
BPTT
which we don't use everything their end
is open source. Oh cool. Well, hey, if
you want to take uh Protein versus their
thing for a spin, like our latest
version of Protein's pretty good,
it' be a cool thing to benchmark.
That'd be a nice little thing. I could
actually ask if there's anybody around
that'd be interested in doing that.
I suspect that. So, one thing I think
that is possible is I don't know if they
do a lot of good pruning and early
stopping. Our pruning could be better,
but I highly highly suspect that as a
base algorithm um Gaussian process will
be more powerful than evolutionary
dead non RNN ah non RNN RL just doesn't
work in my experience.
Like you got a whole bunch of these
roboticists doing a ton a ton of CIS ID
just because they don't have BPTT.
It's really really bad.
Puffer's been um like RNN's default from
day one.
No date. Yep.
I don't want to hamper the chess
experiments too much.
Would
you be interested in doing some paid
work to help us with warboard when we
migrated to Puffer at some point? Uh, we
do have contracts, man. Puffer is a
company.
We do support contracts. We do like
dedicated sim work.
you hire Puffer the company, not me as
an individual.
But yeah,
and for context, it's mostly like me,
Spencer, and then occasionally when we
have um like specialized stuff, if it's
like robotics or whatever, I'll bring
somebody I know who's good at that
particular area. So, you are pretty much
getting directly my time. And Spencer is
also really freaking good now. You
should see some of the stuff he's built.
He started like uh what year and a half
ago and um the I'd say like 80% of the
drive end is his work.
Like 80% of this port I should say is
his work. And this is now being used by
NYU and like several companies as the
entirety of their uh their like AV plan
stack. So it's pretty cool.
I will say the 10k pricing is dated. It
has gone up,
but that's kind of what we do is uh that
is how we keep our lights on with
everything being open source.
Pricing somewhere. Not interested in
buying. Just curious. um we don't
formally have it because it's like it
keeps changing essentially. It goes up
as we are getting more clients than we
have the ability to deal with and then
also um as like puffer just gets better
and better and better we are able to
take on harder problems.
We tend to scope uh in like oneish month
milestones like three to five week
milestones at 50,000 per milestone. And
to give you an idea, like a really basic
SIM would be one milestone. And uh most
of our clients have SIMs that are
between two and four milestones at the
moment.
Only managing 500K.
Yeah, probably a bit small. We do we do
actually do some finance work debris.
It's not our main area. Um but we do
have we got one active in finance and
we've got also one in like um not
finance but commerce
Okay,
just going to move around some of these
arcs.
profile.
Uh, okay. Yes, the parser is a little
broken.
Evening.
This is annoying.
Wait, do I just Can I just delete this?
I can
edit.
data.
I wonder if I just want to pass all the
arcs
work can do. Spencer,
I have been uh I have been like paying
hell with the tortury factor.
I think I started this stream yesterday
at like 8 8 a.m. and I end up working
until like 11
11 at night. But we're getting pretty
close.
We're getting pretty close.
Today is a good day actually because
tomorrow is going to be all day freaking
fight this thing.
I want to have um tomorrow I want to
have like you know solid six GPU sweeps
going already.
Do you cook? Nope.
Or what do you even eat? Well, I'm
currently at home with family in
Florida. Um so it's quite easy. But uh
when I'm in Palo Alto, I have just there
two local places I get pretty much all
my food from. It's quick and it's quite
healthy. Uh I have my own setup in uh
Maryland that's like also quite
convenient. Um well, I'm here in
Florida. Anytime anytime I'm not eating
at home, I'm pretty much at one of the
local diners, which is also pretty good,
like good food.
But I actually don't eat on my uh my
long streams much at all. Like sometimes
I'll grab a piece of toaster or
whatever. It kind of sucks. I get at
least a good 500 600 calories in the
morning from this thing. This is protein
hot chocolate. I make it with just whole
milk, uh 60 g of protein, 50 60 grams of
protein powder, and uh a little bit of
cocoa. That's it. Cinnamon sometimes as
well. So, you know, not a bunch of added
crap. Ton of protein. Keeps me going for
the day. If I run out of steam, I get a
little bit of toast and then I have a
big dinner later. If I eat in the middle
of the day, it puts me to sleep,
unfortunately. So, it absolutely sucks
for my training. It's horrible for
training, but is what it is. You know,
when I'm back in Maryland, I'll uh I'll
get more time to myself for exercise.
I got to come up with a good fitness
goal for the year. I'm thinking like a
300 pound bench might be the play.
Just eat a big meal in the evening.
Yeah, but it's really hard. Like it's
really hard to get enough food when you
also train,
man.
Go mad. Is this the ligma
gallon of milk? Jesus. Nope. My stomach
cannot handle that.
Macros on milk are pretty freaking good,
though.
The digestive is rough. My stomach is
awful.
It already does enough just having this
like this.
I don't know. It's tough because like
technically I'm not working so much that
I don't have time to train as much as
I'd like. Like I c I physically do have
the time to train, but then with the
additional eating and the exhaustion
after it and just like the expenditure
of energy, I can never train quite as
hard um when I'm like really grinding
something as when I'm not. So, I get
like two or three good training sessions
in a week now. Uh, but that's about it.
It definitely is helping me. I'm at
least maintaining strength. Cardio is
slipping a little bit in the last couple
of weeks, but I actually I peaked it
pretty good. I did uh on my birthday a
month and a half ago, I did a 20 minute
three mile flat on the treadmill. I was
really happy with that. a 640
pace
starting strength plus go med in 2010.
That's not even a meme, man. Like if you
are light, it's really really hard to
get enough calories. When I was doing my
uh my powerlifting training at MIT and I
was also running like 45 miles a week,
you need 3500 calories a day and I only
had the appetite for 2,000. So, it would
literally it would be uh it would be get
up, go to Dunkin Donuts, get a coffee
and a donut, go to class, run six to
nine miles, go to Dunkin Donuts, get a
coffee and four donuts, go to the lab,
like do work there, go to the gym, lift
weights, go get a Chipotle bowl, uh then
make a 1600 calorie protein milkshake,
and go to bed. That was my day.
And that's how I got in uh that's how I
got myself into my good base shape.
playing the rights she that's awful for
you though just before sleep. Yeah,
that'll just script your sleep. That's
not worth
digestion, man. Look, if your stomach
isn't awful,
it's a big difference. My stomach is
awful.
I've done enough damage to it with all
the caffeine from studying, plus all the
partying in college. Um,
I've had like really bad food poisoning
a few times.
It's like it's [__] So, I got to be
really really careful with that.
two pounds. Jesus. Heaviest I've ever
weighed is 190.
Uh I was 168 like super cut over the
summer and now I'm like 175 like kind of
medium build.
Definitely not peak peak shape right
now.
I'm gonna have some fun though at the
farm. Like I always have fun with my
training blocks there
cuz you know I can just throw into my
program. Yeah. Today it's going to be uh
15 sets of bench. Just like every 30
minutes get up do a set of bench
because I have all the equipment right
there.
I really enjoy having like all my stuff
just there. It's nice.
265. All right. Yeah. Whole different
world.
I noticed how hard it was running. Even
just going from I used to weigh 140. So
going from 140 to 180 made it so much
harder to run.
Well, 30 minutes of work between sets,
right?
That's the cool thing. I can literally
just I don't know. Have you seen the uh
the warehouse setup?
This is my favorite place to be. I spend
like six, seven months a year. We just
finally got it fully fully set up.
What's this?
All right. Yeah, I was going to show
this.
Yeah, this is the uh the Maryland setup.
It's a fun place. We got all the servers
and I have all my equipment right there.
And like this is basically this picture
is taken from my office area.
What part of MD in not telling you that
box should be all yours have to put four
on there but all runs
to put four on there but all runs. Thank
you very much Jess. Um cool. Uh we got
to figure out what else is idle in the
cluster so you still have some stuff to
run. But yeah, as soon as I finish up
this little clean up, I got to get runs
going.
In fact, I should probably just do it
now.
What time do I wake up? Usually between
7:30 and 8:30.
What do you mean you have to put 40 on
here? Wait, am I on the right one?
What do you mean I have to put four on
here? It was already on four.
Oh, you must have been in a different
VM.
Uh, yo, Jess, do you need this? There's
some work on here.
Yeah, Jess, there's a whole bunch of
work on here.
Can you just check real quick that this
is not something you need? Cuz like
there's a giant change to this puffer
row.
You can Okay, cool.
I'm just going to stack it.
Okay, we need om
bit five.
It's five.
Yeah.
Uh, why did it just auto install kernel
[__] when I went to do OM5?
The [__]
I mean, these are good drivers, right?
570. Uh,
I have no idea why I did this.
What the [__]
All right. Well,
We should wait and see.
Okay.
Weird.
OneP not found.
Oh,
I'm so confused.
not fully installed or removed.
Auto install
Lovely.
Why does it work this way, man?
Where did the charm go?
Not this one.
I need this.
We're just going to paste this crap.
Stupid
annoying
This I can do.
We're not going to remove the um
Nvidia.
Why did it update the freaking kernel
though?
Probably some annoying default config on
the tinies.
error.
Okay. Well, the fix broken never
actually fixes broken, but let's see if
it does for once.
Hold the kernel packages.
Keep using old kernel.
That seems better.
I don't want to install. I don't want to
upgrade the freaking kernel.
annoying.
What are you working on today besides
sweeps? Uh we're mostly trying to figure
out why the uh there's like this little
small perf discrepancy between 30 and 40
we're trying to figure out. And then uh
we're also cleaning up stuff so we can
start getting lots and lots of data into
constellation.
That's mostly it.
All right, we're just gonna do this full
packages thing.
This is ridiculous.
I hate this so much.
Why is it stop my ass?
You can't even kill this.
Just like why, man?
crash locks.
Those we can remove safely.
Keeps [__] auto installing this [__]
We already have this kernel. We have
this exact c. We like I mean this
driver. We have this exact driver.
We're not do We're not [__]
perfecting in video.
God damn.
away.
This is the axe.
Absolute axe.
It's still trying to do it every time I
run any app command.
Slot code is good. No, it's terrible.
But then again, so is the torch back
end. So I'm using crap to fix other
crap.
Why does it do this? Who the hell
thought it would be a good idea to like
attempt to just blindly do this [__]
every time you run any app command?
Like why is it trying to install Nvidia
drivers when I try to just like install
a completely unrelated
not what I need to be doing right now?
Can I even update?
See you Jess.
Is that a bot?
Still no great.
Nobody should have been able to even
install this kernel is the thing.
This is the entire reason we use
dockers. By the way,
We do have this.
Wait.
Which one of these are we supposed to be
purging?
We don't have 617 in here. This is all
stuff we expect.
This is safe cuz we don't need this
anyways.
Okay. So, what the hell is this?
some auto update like
so obnoxious, man.
There must be like scheduled updates or
some poor [__]
running version.
I don't want the Okay, this should get
us as long as we don't break anything.
Okay.
Yes.
I don't know how that new kernel got
installed.
kernel update breaking drive like
graphics driver update should also just
never be a thing.
Okay, good.
Then now we can install this.
Yes.
Now the problem is going to be
how do we still not have OMP Okay.
Okay.
NCCL
There's a package, isn't there?
there.
Oh, there.
It's just tries to break [__]
constantly, man.
It doesn't have 128.
Okay.
Why do you need to log in to install
older versions, Nvidia? [__] off.
Oh my god.
Why are you like this?
[__] man.
Oh, and I also have to go double check
because I might have I told a client I'd
be around
to see if they're here.
Uh, no emails.
No email back.
Check again in a little bit.
You an MD? Not at the moment. Soon.
Dude, why
go away?
Sure.
I hate this so much.
It redirects me to the same spot.
Oh, okay. Good.
Wait. CUDA
12.8
there.
We're just going to have to release a um
a docker because nobody's going to be
able to freaking get their [__] to work
with this.
All in on metal. Why?
Like, oh yay, it works at a tenth of the
speed on Apple's shitty overpriced
hardware.
You're not ever going to get anything to
work on that. Like their hardware is
just terrible
work.
No one CCL. Lovely.
Dude, what the hell just happened?
I didn't see it install anything.
Okay, that's the dev package.
Utterly insane, man.
Okay.
Do we need this thing?
It's just so frustrating, man. It should
not take hours
the machine to work.
Can I just delete this?
doesn't import.
What am I using it for?
Oh
h
This might just be blow.
Is this doing anything?
Not needed.
Okay.
Oh, utilization dummy.
I see
Why is it not linked?
That's
Are you kidding me,
dude?
So dumb. Hey, Jam.
I'm fighting really dumb like setup
issues at the moment. Not too fun, man.
We'll be done with this soon, I'd hope.
really need to just get experiments
going fast. That's the plan
the moment.
Okay, that runs.
Can we train?
We can train
LSPS solves in six seconds. Good.
Very good.
Okay.
Let me just do a quick run reproing grid
since I can do that now.
Let's just copy grid.
Wait, where is
not in here? Huh?
Probably. Wait, did I do it in pop
three?
Yes, here it is.
like this. Yeah.
Wait. N.
Yes.
Start with this.
We get multiGPU. We'll get lots of cool
stuff working.
Now we have the box at least.
Comment everything.
not log to just stuff.
Okay,
train.
We train
18 minutes. Not bad.
Well, that was something. Um
Not the wrong mute button. Okay, I'm
going to take a few minutes.
Use the restroom. Let me grab a new mug
of tea
and then we'll be back. We'll do some
refactors. We'll do experiments. We have
lots of stuff to do. Couple hours of
work. And then I got to go do some
client stuff today. I will be back.
All
right.
I'm new here. What language does he code
in?
Uh, if I'm happy, C. If I'm
doing a Python, if I'm having a really
bad day, C++
language of pain.
Now, the C code is freaking easy, man.
Literally easier to write C than Python.
Python, you have a million stupid things
to think about and everything is slow.
See, you have like five things to think
about and everything is fast.
All right, let's go see. Do we get
curves?
Also, let me just make sure this client
has not emailed me.
Nope.
That's not super promising, though, is
it?
Why? Why is it this?
Oh, it just hasn't logged correctly.
Cool.
It probably went to Puffer 4, right?
There we go.
This one.
Not bad.
So far so good.
Okay. So, what we're going to do, let's
clean up the rest of our stuff real
quick.
Where were we?
Okay. On the right machine.
It's not line 360, my guy.
I got it up and running. Jess, I uh I'm
going to have to do some work for
multiGPU and stuff. I'm cleaning up some
configs first and running a couple test
experiments on one. And then what we're
going to do is we're going to try to get
multi working today.
It was a pain in the ass. Somehow a new
kernel tried to get installed that
wasn't compatible with the driver. I
don't even know how that happens, but
I got it.
Where's data? For [__] sake.
Legacy.
Oh, you [__] It's supposed to go under
here.
Got it.
Spencer's going to focus on 40.
Um, well, Spencer and I, we like we have
some client work as well that's taking
some time.
I'm kind of just putting in as many
extra hours as I can for a bit to get
this [__] done.
You know,
Arch until 40. I don't know if the 40
arch is really going to be much better,
Jess. It's going to be faster
for sure.
Oh yeah, they definitely uh will get
faster.
Even big nets will get faster
because of be a float.
What the clouds?
If it's a bit bigger
maybe
The bigger models will be faster, but
the smaller models will be like way
faster. Just
It's a plug problem.
there. Super easy.
Big ass CNN. Yeah. Well, Jess, one of
the cool things we're going to be able
to do is we're going to be able to
benchmark KudnN CNN. So, like Nvidia's
super optimized CNN. We can go see how
fast you can actually get it. Uh static
memory, you know.
Quite a bit of stuff.
How many tabs do you have open? Not that
many.
What do you mean?
I got a bunch of random terminals.
Not that many web tabs.
And probably drop most of this.
This I can get rid of.
Get rid of
it's fine.
How are we doing here?
08. Okay. That's not what we want to
see.
I mess up.
That's a little sketch.
Do this first.
It's basically for chess. No, chess is
one of the projects we have active. We
have dozens of environments.
Cool.
Joseph's not working on chess. Well, I'm
working on some very nice infrastructure
that should sure help,
but I can't really claim credit. for
more than um very minor advisory on the
product itself.
No this
The core infer puffer is just like
it's going to be so simple eventually.
Eventually we're just going to have like
cut through all of the [__]
in modern modern AI like the whole stack
of hell
and everything is going to be great.
puffer torch into a standalone library.
You won't want it though, Jess.
Like
the point is not that there are going to
be some reusable ops obviously, but like
the point is that CUDA was kind of the
right layer of abstraction anyways.
You pretty much just want um you just
want kernels for common ops. That's it.
and maybe a tensor strct.
I think that's pretty much it. Yeah, you
just want kernels for common ops to like
take a tensor strct.
That's it.
Maybe they get their own strus like the
bigger colonels get their own strus
instead of having 20 args. I don't know.
Maybe that. But like there's not that
that much room for ambiguity here.
Oops. Can we do this?
Unfigured GPUs.
or trap that you don't that
you don't that isn't BS.
Um I mean they have like I don't even
know what kernels are theirs versus
which ones they wrapped but they have a
bunch of operations.
The problem is they've wrapped a lot of
their ops wrong. Like
they have not really built it for uh
static memory.
Everything's dynamic memory. The CUDA
caching allocator sucks. I do think that
there exists a form of auto grabb that
is not terrible. Like, yeah, it's fine.
You could theoretically have a
reasonable auto grab,
but I actually don't think auto bread
matters as much as it used to.
Holy.
Yeah.
Uh, dynamic memory everywhere. Jess
bloated as hell. Shitty C++ classes.
I don't even care that much because it's
like not that important to have
like you see it actually doesn't matter
that much not having an autograd.
It's like wow but autograd is how
everything works. Yeah. How do you think
the kernels are implemented?
people writing the freaking derivatives
for each kernel. You're just chaining
them together.
As the ops get bigger and more fused,
it's less important to have.
All right.
Yay. We got something that is uh decent.
Decent.
I think decent, right?
Shapes are still good.
just do some light stuff with this.
This company is now valued at 32 belt.
I mean, that's just off of him being
Yoyo, right? Nobody knows what they're
doing.
You try Codeex, too. I don't care that
much. I might end up switching to
Codeex.
I like Open AI a lot more than
Anthropic, but I think I like Daario
more than Altman, though I don't really
like either of them.
I think Daario is mostly honest, but is
nuts and Alman is mostly lying.
So, it's mostly uh the models are kind
of interchangeable. It's mostly which of
these stupid companies do I want to be
throwing money at?
I honestly hate these models anyways.
I'd way like to just get the code base
down smaller so I use them a lot less.
Off Paul's a bust.
No, off Paul's screwed.
I I spent several weeks figuring this
out. So, there's basically a
mathematical problem that's probably
intractable.
You have to solve this problem to make
off off Paul worth a damn and I think
it's intractable.
Codeex
probably.
I mean, I don't even want to look at the
uh the credit bill for the last month.
It's awful.
I do not intend to be using these tools
like a lot long term though.
I think it's mostly like y'all made a
mess. You made all the code completely
uneditable
um by humans. Let's get the code back
into made for people to edit and then we
don't need these
That's good.
learning proper.
That means I haven't done a good enough
job making it simple, man.
I try.
I do have a lot of good educational
material out there.
It's very difficult. Like you got to
understand that
the amount of crap I've inherited that I
have to figure out how to clean is just
it's very difficult.
Like if the mainstream approach to ML
were to just write stuff in CUDA and we
had some nice just repos of common
kernels and stuff and we iterated on
making that process simpler and
efficient. Puffer would be so easy to
write by comparison.
Like imagine that you just like include
kernels.h or whatever or kernels.cu
and then you just got a com, you got
like the fastest detentions, you got um
you know some good map moles,
you got prefix scan. Oh man, my life
would be so easy.
But instead, we've decided to wrap
everything in like eight layers of
redundant [__] So it's hard.
Yay.
Very good.
See if this is good.
Sample some prams.
Yay.
Why is multi sweep 40 seconds.
Okay, let's look at sweep.
What about parto sweep?
Prito sweep is similar, right?
Yeah, prito sweep is similar.
Think
we merge all three of these right now.
Oh yeah. How's our sweep going?
Uh,
wait.
Wait, is
okay. It's still over like this.
All right. What have you done to my
code,
Mr. Language Model?
I think we should be able to merge all
these.
Now it just can totally get merged.
We do want Parto Men.
We have to also be careful not to break
sweep code. Sweep code is very
important.
This should be a simple enough merge,
right?
Okay. Sweep single GPU is blah.
Let's just look at what this is.
Oh, lovely. Writes garbage code.
Dude.
Oh, I made them one function by um I
made them one function by duplicating
the whole thing.
Stupid man.
What's this even do?
Observe. Suggest
awful. All
right, let me understand this. Let me
think how this should be built.
Well, this goes away. Go by.
Oh, wait.
Uh, do we care about torch seating?
I don't think we care about torch
seating, right?
This god sucks.
Am
I wrong?
Train
surf.
No, it literally just does that.
Oh, you can't.
Lovely.
Why take advantage?
Uh, Jess, I think that the puffer five
thing is just going to do that but way
better.
Yes.
Did this just completely [__] up the
Wait,
this code is so dumb. The whole lake
I'm going to just play with it like this
for a bit.
Super annoying.
Hopefully I can get this into a state
that is like not awful.
Yeah. Okay. California.
about [__] you.
and let's see what this gets us
train signal go away.
What the heck is going on here? Prot.
No.
Yeah, we're not doing this.
H okay this is pain we we have to clean
this up today this is completely
unacceptable
a sweep function a train function
code. I swear.
It's okay though.
I send the kill.
I don't really like this whole thing.
What the [__] is futures?
at a million bloody things. I swear.
Stupid
simple idiot.
I This has just gotten out of hand. The
thing is I don't do this if I just don't
let it get out of hand.
I should have never allowed this merch
right here.
You never do call backs like this if you
can ever avoid it.
If you put it in plan mode, it spins for
10 minutes and then gives you [__]
Process runs train.
Can you not return something from a
process?
I thought you could just get a return
value.
This is the code.
We'll compare this as well.
This just is like a big mess. I need to
essentially just this thing should end
up being I don't know 150 lines of code.
How are we doing? Sweep. This stuff
needs This needs to get merged.
This gets merged.
Where is this going into train?
See, I hate this.
I have to think about how we designed
this so it doesn't suck
cuz this it's such a mess. We can't have
this in puffer. This file has to be
simple.
I'm not just going to stick it another
file either. That's not valid.
Lead comments. Piece of [__]
Complete madness.
It's okay though.
Okay.
See what we have.
Wait for a free GPU.
No, I hate this.
Guess we can integrate actor. Actually,
this is not bad.
observe.
Yep.
The [__] is this?
God damn.
Now what we're going to do is
I know I know how we're going to handle
this. It's just going to be a little bit
of a pain in the ass.
This is substantially faster, but
substantially like dumber and more
frustrating than doing this by hand. I
really just want to get our code back
into the state where it's about as
efficient to do it by hand because this
is just brain damage.
All right.
That is
We only have one train function now,
which is what we wanted. This sucks.
This sucks.
Let me start thinking about this
[__] brain. What the [__] dude? Like
stupid [__]
Look what it does.
Oh, wait. Was this this just erroring?
Hang on.
Single GPU in line. Where' this go?
Why does it show this twice?
637.
Oh, okay. It's just doing in bare sweep.
Fine.
Sweep.
like this either.
We're not going to do processes and
processes. That's so stupid.
Do we want to be able to do a multiGPU
sweep?
Does that even make sense?
Like I mean like multiGPUs and multiple
GPUs per run in the sweep.
I think so.
Well, that's never actually going to do
processes and processes if we just have
that fallback, right?
But we might want to
does the eval for some reason on um
one GPU.
No real reason to do it that way.
Let me get more tea. I'll be right back.
We'll figure it out. I'm not going to
ship this thing. Stupid. Be back.
Okay.
So, um
the idea here
What's Madrona engine by the way? I got
linked that. Madrona is a uh GPU
uh environment engine for RL.
It's um
it's quite good for what it is.
You kind of really need to know what
you're doing to get much out of it. Um
Bren, I know Brendan, he's awesome, but
I mean, we ported the driving
environment from GPU to CPU and we made
it 10x faster.
I do believe you could probably make it
quite quite good uh if you're using the
engine appropriately. But like the
problem with really complicated engines
is you just don't have users that know
what the [__] they're doing. Um so like
if you're going to ship an engine for
environments and then researchers are
going to use it wrong. It's going to be
slow. Whereas in our case it was just
easier to build the whole environment
lowle and just ship that to them. And
that's actually easier for them to edit
as well. Now the place where that type
of a thing really makes sense. So, first
of all, his batch renderer is really
good. If you need to do um like if you
need to train on pixels for some reason,
the batch renderer is really good. And
uh if you have heavy physics, then you
want some sort of parallel engine
probably like that as well. I would
imagine
he's got quite a bit of good stuff in
there
for sure.
You don't want to use it for like games
though really. It's more for physics
stuff because for games you just put it
on the CPU and you're good.
Pick phase logic for learning. Yeah, it
does. There it's a tradeoff though with
um it was a trade-off with making the
action space freaking huge.
You're definitely something we should
mess with.
Uh yeah, definitely Jess.
I mean, are you doing you're masking the
movements, right? Is that what you're
doing with this two phases
or it's for the invalid penalty?
It's going to have to get compacted.
Masking seems no masking is useful I
think. Doesn't Chris Bamford?
Whose paper is this?
Oh, Costa.
Of course. Freaking Costa. Costa is the
goat.
Wait, what? Where's the one with Costa?
I thought Costa was on this. No,
I guess it's this paper.
Wait, did somebody copy his work?
Cuz uh I think this is the original I
was thinking about. This paper here is
what you want.
I haven't read this in a long time. It's
a good paper to look at though.
TS just like the goat. So
TS is the only person I have absolutely
nothing nothing nothing bad to say
about. He's just awesome in everything
with his work.
One of the only people, let's say, one
of very few.
this.
I didn't tell you to do this, you [__]
literally just deleted sweeps, didn't
it?
Complete and utter failure.
So [__] man.
This is good.
Yeah, this is what we want.
That's way better content for the
timeline.
I met Stallman a couple times at MIT.
He's a really chill dude.
How do we make an RLB bot for Polytopia?
Step number one is to implement
Polytopia headless but fast.
Assuming you don't want to just spend an
ungodly amount of All right.
It's kind of funny in a sense because
like like oh but like what if it can't
run fast thing. It's pretty much always
just that um games are developed to a
performance target that is a thousand
times slower than what is reasonably
possible
without even doing anything too fancy.
Modern programmers kind of just are slow
and bad
train. Okay.
So all the logic
just went into here.
make multiple moves per turn.
That's fine.
Turn base is good.
Hey Spencer, let me finish this crap up
and then yeah, I'll see if I I wrap this
up and we go spend the time reverse
engineering.
Um, not really. I just kind of start
with a basic version of the game and get
something cool and then that'll motivate
me to like you know, add the full stuff
in.
You kind of need to know what you're
doing on programming side though because
they're going to be some C.
Big chunky C.
Very simple C though.
If you look at some of our ends,
Okay.
I wonder if this actually trains.
I mean, it does train.
It's not terrible.
Hey, 24. I think I'm gonna go uh meet
with Spencer.
We got some work to do. Let me go let
him know.
All right. Yeah, I'm going to go cuz I
got some stuff to do for our clients
before I'm completely out of energy for
the day. Um I might stream in the
evening or I might kind of just work on
this offline. The goal for today, we're
going to try to get the sweeps code to
be nice and clean. We've got all the
configs refactored so it goes nice and
constellation. And I'm going to try to
get this up and running multiGPU sweep
soon.
I will be live all day tomorrow,
Saturday, from bright and early be a
full full day stream. Um, at least
that's the plan provided I have stuff to
do
for the folks watching. So, we have
quite a few. I stream all my devs. It's
all open source. puffer.ai. You want to
help me for absolutely free? Star the
puffer on GitHub. You want to get
involved with development, join Discord.
It's actually pretty easy to get
involved and learn a bunch of low-level
dev, bunch of reinforcement learning and
the like. And you can follow me on XJ
Suarez. The handle's been updated. I
haven't fixed the site yet. Uh if you
would like more RL content. Thank you
all.